MAN: Hands in the air!
-JUANITA: Hey!
-DR. PORTER: Wait!
-We're friendly.
-JUANITA: Wait!
MAN 2: Move! Move! Move!
JUANITA: Yumiko!
(MAN SHOUTING COMMANDS)
Let's go! Let's go!
MAN 2: Back up. Back up!
-MAN 3: Wrong move.
-JUANITA: You're hurting me.
Stop, or I'll shoot.
-Get down on the ground.
-YUMIKO: Princess!
I said get down on the ground.
MAN 4: Stop where you are.
YUMIKO: Leave her alone.
MAN 5: Freeze!
JUANITA: Yumiko!
MAN 1: Eyes over here.
MAN 2: Get down.
This is your last chance.
YUMIKO: Yumiko!
Get off of her!
Don't hurt her, shitheads!
MAN 1: Separate them all.
(DOOR LOCKS)
MAN: Hold on, I'm cooperating.
Don't...
WOMAN: Where are you taking us?
Get your hands off me.
MAN 2: We made a mistake.
We mean no harm.
(INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER)
MAN: (OVER RADIO) Targets secured.
She was a little feisty.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER)
MAN: Trainyards clear.
Proceeding to interro one.
(COUNTING IN SPANISH)
MAN: Come on. Move.
MAN 2: Take it easy. What are you...
What do you want? Where are we going?
Albany, Annapolis,
Atlanta, Augusta, Austin,
Baton Rouge, Bismarck,
Boise, Boston, Carson City,
Charleston, Cheyenne,
Columbia, Columbus, Concord,
Denver, Des Moines, Dover,
Frankfort, Harrisburg.
Oh, hey, cool. I did know that one.
(EXHALES)
Come on.
(SIGHS) Nothing.
-MAN: Copy.
-MAN OVER RADIO: Copy that...
-You can be the one to tell Mercer.
-(MAN LAUGHING)
Yeah, right.
(GROANS)
(SPEAKING SPANISH)
YUMIKO: Princess, what are you doing?
Are you there?
Yumiko, is that you?
(YUMIKO SHUSHING)
Yeah, it's me.
I'm in the next train car over.
Okay. I'm gonna try to get to you.
I don't think that's gonna be possible.
Can you move any closer?
Maybe then I can see you.
Kind of, sort of.
It hurts a little to move.
Oh, no, Yumiko. I'm so sorry.
I feel terrible
if something I did got you hurt.
(BREATHING HEAVILY) No. It's okay.
I'm gonna make it up to you.
I just gotta find a way through this wall.
No, don't do that.
They got to help you.
At least let me go get them.
(LAUGHS) How exactly?
I bang on the door, scream really loud,
get them over here so we can talk to them.
It's a good idea.
It's a terrible idea.
-I have to do something.
-No.
Please. Please, don't do anything.
You sound a little groggy,
did you hit your head?
-I'll be fine.
-That's a yes, isn't it? Oh, no.
How bad is it? Are you bleeding?
No, I don't think so.
Princess, please calm down.
It's not gonna help if you get so upset.
I can't just sit here while you're hurt.
You can. I need you to.
Yumiko, let me... Let me try to...
No. Just do what they say.
Okay. Sorry.
Uh...
It's just that...
it's dark in here.
Really small.
Yumiko...
Can you still hear me?
Yeah, I can.
Stay awake. Listen to me.
Listen to my voice, okay?
I'm gonna try to get in there to help you.
It's okay. No.
Just keep talking to me, okay?
Okay.
So, when I was 14,
I was in a similar spot.
I scratched at the inside door jamb.
Broke off a piece of it.
And it nailed me. Got a bad splinter.
Turned into a mess,
I got an infection in my hand.
I had to stay home from school,
which sucked.
(LAUGHS) Yeah. Weird. I know.
-Yumiko?
-(FAINTLY) Hmm? I'm here.
Good.
So where was I? So, home was no bueno.
And there were some...
Some cool kids at school.
This one girl taught me
how to dye my hair,
which totally changed my life.
I wonder where she is now.
If she made it.
Yumiko.
You still with me?
(FAINTLY) Mmm-hmm.
Anyway, uh, I nagged my mom,
and she sent me back to school
before my hand healed.
It got infected again
and swelled up like a birthday balloon.
Like, oozing this gross puss
that made me feel like a swamp monster.
And my mom didn't seem to notice.
But my stepdad...
He wouldn't let me eat
at the dinner table.
Ah, he even laughed about it.
And it was cold.
(SPEAKS SPANISH)
I said, "No way, man.
You can't push me away."
This was my house first.
And...
He smacked me hard.
Right across my jaw.
Yumiko.
So I said to my mom,
"Hey, you gonna do something? Anything?
"Please don't send me out to the garage
to eat by myself."
So my mom said...
"Then don't eat."
Uh...
I didn't know where that story was going
when I started.
Yumiko.
(THUDS)
Yumiko, are you okay?
Can you hear me? Hey, wake up!
Yumiko! Hey! Yumiko!
Come on, answer me.
-Wake up. Yumiko!
-MAN: Open it up.
-Come on.
-Hey, hey! You guys!
You got to help my friend,
she's passed out.
Hey, you hear me?
Where are you taking her? Hey! How is she?
(INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER)
Are you helping her?
Hey! Answer me.
MAN: Shut up!
Albany, Annapolis,
Atlanta, Augusta, Austin,
Baton Rouge, Bismarck, Boise,
Boston, Carson City, Charleston, Cheyenne,
Columbia, Columbus, Concord...
Don't know about you,
I've never seen one turn that fast.
Yeah, I haven't either.
Keep your eyes open...
Hey, Yumiko.
You back?
No way.
Come on.
All right. Yeah.
-Hey. Stop.
-Eugene.
Go. Get back in there.
Oh, thank God.
Our armored chaperones are making
frequent checks on these vicinities.
What are you doing?
We got to find Yumiko,
I think she's hurt bad.
There's a similar porthole
on the other side?
Well, not exactly. But I can hear her.
Or I could.
They took her somewhere.
We have to go check.
On what?
You said her potential benefactors
are providing her with assistance.
I said they took her.
I don't know where or for what.
Come on.
-Stop that.
-You're coming with me.
-No. It's not a good idea.
-Why not?
I spoke with Stephanie
for many, many weeks.
Her good character is evident,
which can't be an anomaly
among her people.
We'll see that once we clear
whatever process is required here.
You're betting Yumiko's life on that?
They're testing our mettle.
Which means keeping us
in good enough shape to talk.
I don't have to bet on anything.
All logic and reason
points to Yumiko being okay.
Sorry, man, but that's batshit.
Stop it.
(MEN TALKING)
MAN: Negative on that.
Report of activity was over
in the switch area.
(MEN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY)
Nothing on the north side perimeter.
Cars A, B and C are all quiet.
Moving on to check the south side. Over.
-MAN OVER RADIO: Copy.
-Let's go.
Please go back in there, pronto.
If they caught you,
the consequences for our acceptance
into their community could be disastrous.
But you just said they were nice.
Well, my people back home need help.
We're in the middle of a fierce battle.
If it hasn't concluded already,
the need for significant aid
is inevitable.
To be blunter, all my kinfolk
are counting on me
to be a cross between Santa Claus
and a guardian angel, if you will.
You think I'm gonna mess things up.
No. We have to present ourselves
as worthy of allegiance.
There's no room for miscalculations.
You hear me?
Do not make things worse.
Come with me.
Hands up. Move slowly.
Where are we going?
Walk.
What is this?
What are you gonna do to me?
What are you looking for?
Turn around.
If you're looking for bites,
I don't have any.
But I got this splinter on my hand
that's driving me nuts.
Can you maybe take it out?
Please.
Please. Tell me why I'm here.
Let's start with your name.
You don't know your name?
Princess.
You think this is a joke?
How's my friend doing? The girl.
You took her.
You're helping her, right?
She's getting help now.
How old are you?
Twenty-eight, 29. I could be 50.
I don't know, man.
I lost track a long time ago.
-Can you just tell me how she's doing?
-Where are you from?
-Where is she?
Okay, fine.
Where were you when the fall happened?
Why is any of that important?
Pittsburg.
Can't you just tell me if she's alive?
Why'd you come here?
-She hurt her head pretty bad.
-You're avoiding the question.
-She might have a concussion.
-She's fine.
You don't believe me?
I want to.
Just let me see her.
Tell me about her.
What?
Tell me about your friends.
Start with the one you're worried about.
What her name?
You won't tell me her name?
Why is she here?
The others, what are their names?
Can't you ask them that?
Tell me why they're here.
Where are they from?
Fine.
-What do you want from me?
-We're done.
-I gave you answers.
-Get her out of here.
Why can't I see her?
What did you do with her?
Because you're being a bitch.
I want to see her!
Then you should have
answered our questions.
Yumiko.
Yumiko, I'm so sorry.
I tried to do like you said.
I didn't tell them anything,
but maybe I still messed up.
They kept grilling me,
asking me up and down
what I knew about you guys.
Like I'm some kind of narc.
"Friends," they said.
They used that word.
(MEN SPEAKING)
Eugene.
Shit! Shit!
Shit!
(THUDDING)
What the...
-Ezekiel?
-(SHUSHES)
Took some epic maneuvering,
might have been spotted.
-Sorry, I'm all wet.
-Oh, man, they got you, too.
Yeah. Not the most fun interview
I've ever had.
(MEN APPROACHING)
MAN: Copy that.
-Have any idea where the others are?
-They're gone. I don't know.
We'll figure it out.
Let's get out of here.
Right now?
No, next week. Yes, right now.
Yumiko's hurt.
I think they took her to help her.
You think?
Yeah, maybe. But...
But what?
Listen, uh...
I didn't do us any favors in my interview.
What did you do?
Nothing. I mean, I got a little bit upset.
I might have...
The inquisition was aggressive.
They are toying with us. Let's go.
What's wrong?
I don't think running will help right now.
The guards will be back any minute.
But what if they really
are helping Yumiko?
Eugene said they would,
and you trust him, right?
We don't know these people,
and we can't trust what we don't know.
We can find a way out.
You don't know that.
I made it here, didn't I?
-We'll be fine.
-Nothing is fine.
Dickhead nailed me over an old fracture.
Here, let me see.
I'll be okay.
It's healed fine every time before.
No one is gonna hurt you anymore.
Not while I'm here.
-We'll keep watch up top.
-Ezekiel.
Wait for the shift to change
and then we move.
How are we supposed to find Eugene
and Yumiko?
If we get some of their weapons,
we can even force them...
We can't just leave them here.
You don't think I know that?
They're my friends.
I didn't mean it like that.
I know they're your friends.
You don't have to be an asshole about it.
Don't act like I don't know
how to be friends with people, I do.
I'm just trying to be helpful.
Fear brings out the worst in us.
As it just did in me.
I apologize.
What if Eugene trusted
the wrong people this time?
People suck.
They say one thing, but mean another.
They tell you they love you.
But they don't act like it.
People are assholes.
Especially family.
Not all family.
Most families.
I just wanna do the right thing.
I know.
We need a better plan.
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(DOOR OPENING)
Hey, look, I'm sorry about before.
I didn't mean to be difficult.
This is all just a little scary.
You know what I'm saying?
The questions, the guns, the whole getup.
I mean, we rolled up, and it was just...
What the hell did you just do?
This is not what I meant.
I'm sick of this place.
Yeah, but now what are they gonna do
to us? To Yumiko? To Eugene?
This is not a better plan.
The opportunity presented itself,
so I took it.
How the hell
are we supposed to explain this?
Who cares?
He's here now.
And he has information we need.
Keep quiet.
Tell us what you did with our friends.
You don't have to do this.
Hey, hey, just let me do the talking.
I just need to know
that my friend is okay.
Okay.
Your boss said she was getting help.
Is she?
Why wouldn't she be?
-Then tell me where she is.
-I don't know.
She's probably with one of the medics.
-We're supposed to believe that?
-You think we're hurting her?
(SCOFFS)
The thought has crossed our minds.
For the benefit of all,
and for all who seek solace at our gates.
-What the hell is that supposed to mean?
-It's what we stand for.
If your friend was sick,
then she got help.
She's not sick,
you guys beat the crap out of her.
I don't know anything about that.
-Bullshit.
-Look, I know this is a lot,
but isn't it possible, just maybe,
that we're not the bad guys.
You separated us
and locked us inside trains.
It's intense. I get that, okay?
But if you just stay calm,
-we really can help you.
-How?
Let's just say we have access to things
that are valuable in times like these.
Food? Medicine? Ponies? What?
I'm not saying yes, but I'm not saying no.
You know what I mean?
We're organized.
You should let us help you.
That's why you came, right?
So let's say you're telling the truth,
and you're actually very helpful people
who like to help,
even if you look like a bunch
of scary action figures came to life.
What happens after this?
What are you gonna do with us?
I don't know.
-He's lying.
-I don't know exactly...
-You're messing with us.
-Are you messing with us?
What would be the point of that?
This is not our first time at the rodeo
with people like you.
People do terrible shit
to each other all the time.
I meant what I said,
what we stand for is real.
This, all this, is just standard protocol
on mission-based assignments.
We have paperwork to fill out,
for Christ's sake.
The place we live is a good place.
It's our job to keep the many,
many good people who live there safe.
We're careful
because we have a lot to lose.
Don't you get that?
I still need answers.
Like a goodwill gesture.
It's not hard.
-Just tell me where my friend is.
-I can't do that.
-See.
-Why not?
Because I don't know.
My orders were to keep you fed
until they were ready.
-Ready?
-Ready for what?
You don't get it. I'm just a grunt.
I don't get the kind of intel
you want, all right?
Three square meals and a uniform.
That's it. That's me.
Hey, all right, you have to believe me.
Look, I'm on probation as it is.
They're gonna discharge me for this,
getting snatched up by some chick.
Maybe we need to start
breaking some fingers.
I'm just a rookie.
I'm so new, that rifle isn't even loaded.
Ezekiel, stop!
Stop.
JUANITA: Oh, my God! Stop! Stop!
You're gonna kill him!
Stop! Stop! Stop it, Ezekiel!
No one's gonna hurt me anymore!
Don't! You're gonna kill him! Don't!
Just listen!
Just listen and do what we say!
Please.
YUMIKO: Just do what they say.
DR. PORTER: Do not make things worse.
EZEKIEL: No one is going to
hurt you anymore.
Shit.
What is the matter with you?
Just go.
MAN: Come on.
Ooh, girl. Get your shit together.
Don't be so hard on yourself.
This is new. I get it.
But time waits for no one.
We start dying the day we're born.
So, vámonos.
I don't think I can.
You can.
What about them?
-What about them?
-They're my friends.
You met them a week ago.
That's a lifetime in apocalypse years.
Haven't you learned
to trust your instincts by now?
You know better than that.
Yeah?
But...
You're good on your own.
I'm a goddamn superhero on my own.
So let's go.
You wanna go.
Believe me, I know.
But if I leave...
-It makes me just like her, don't it?
-Yeah.
It makes you just like Mom.
-She was a survivor.
-She was a monster.
But there are always monsters.
She was scared.
Everybody gets scared sometimes.
You remember what it was like?
We had to learn our lessons the hard way.
Take your freedom.
Wait, but there were some
good ones, though.
Maybe not Mom or Dougie,
but not everyone was bad.
There was Miss Travis,
Sammy and his people...
And them.
There are the stories you tell yourself...
And then there's the truth.
Maybe.
But they came back for me.
I don't know my own strength sometimes.
-Who you talking to now?
-No one.
I mean, you.
I'm not crazy,
if that's what you're thinking.
I mean, there's the ADHD,
the anxiety, the PTSD,
the depression, the crushing loneliness,
and the active imagination that
helps me cope with all of that,
but like, maybe that's the only
sane response to an insane world.
You know what I'm saying?
Small, dark spaces just do bad things
to my head because...
Well, I don't like them,
but who does, right?
So screw you for judging.
I didn't say anything.
I'm sorry. I don't wanna
mess anything else up here.
You mind putting that down?
I'm going to hold onto it
just a little longer,
if it's all the same to you.
Can you at least...
What?
Nothing. The splinter came out.
Thanks for not screaming.
Yeah, well, this doesn't exactly
look good for me.
You really gonna get busted for this, huh?
It'll be worse for you.
You're gonna have to explain this.
I'll figure it out.
Hand me the rifle.
-I can tell them that sometimes...
-They won't care.
-I have this tic that...
Maybe you can explain to them
that you slipped.
No, no, no. I screwed up.
I have to face the consequences, okay?
And you and your friends,
God bless you, good luck.
You have to go back to whatever
shitty corner of the world you came from.
There's got to be a way
we can help each other out.
I'm listening.
What if I answer your boss's questions?
I can work with that.
-Would I be able to see my friends?
-It's not my call.
But you heard my boss.
You answer, you see them.
You can believe him or not.
(COMM BEEPS)
Fine. Uh...
I just met them,
so I don't know how old they are.
But who cares?
If you're alive in the apocalypse,
you're, like, 150 years old anyway.
I don't know where they're from.
Nowhere and everywhere, probably,
just like everyone else.
I'm from Pittsburg, by way of San Juan.
But do cities and states and countries
even exist or matter anymore?
We've been on the road for a week.
We had bikes for a while. Then we walked.
That's how we got here.
Why am I here?
To be with them and...
Their names are Eugene,
Yumiko and Ezekiel.
But you already knew that.
And my name is Princess.
That was good. Thank you.
The rifle.
See...
Didn't have to be hard.
The rules are simple,
the questions are routine.
People just complicate them.
Just needed to know
you could play ball with us.
So when can I see my friends?
Right now.
I got it. Let's go!
Wait!
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)